---
layout: single
permalink: /about/
title: About
headline: About the Project
modified: 2014-11-17
tags: [Jason Heppler, digital history, research]
---

## {{ page.title }}

*Machines in the Valley* is a digital history project that serves as a
companion to my dissertation.

Between 1945 and 1990, the Santa Clara Valley experienced profound 
environmental change during an unprecedented wave of urban and 
industrial growth. With those changes came conflict over landscape 
change. Answering that question means extending historian Kenneth 
Jackson's observation that "the space around us---the physical 
organization of neighborhoods, roads, yards, houses, and 
apartments---sets up living patterns that condition our behavior."[^3] In 
Silicon Valley, the attitudes, ideas, and values that people impart on 
to nature---biological and idealized---reveals how ideas about nature 
played out in postindustrial American society. By examining the ways 
that people created place, the politics they engaged in to protect that 
place, and examining the physical changes to the landscape that 
resulted, my research argues for the importance of understanding how 
space creates politics. The story revolves around whose space Silicon 
Valley would become: A postindustrial trend-setter? A fertile and 
beautiful agricultural producer? A countryside paradise? A metropolitan 
leader?

Space forms the central component of my work. Geographer John Write has 
argued that "places are best seen as sifting stages where the exercise 
of power and resistance to it vie for dominance."[^1] Physical and 
conceptual boundaries were drawn around competing landscapes in the Bay 
Area. These boundaries encapsulated three landscapes: agriculture, 
industry, and suburbs. These intermixed landscapes placed unique but 
concurrent pressures on natural resources on the Peninsula. By examining 
what Richard White called hybrid landscapes, I argue the 
interconnections between these competing idealized landscapes shaped the 
environmental, cultural, and political identities in the Bay Area.[^2]

## Contributing

If you are interested in collaborating or contributing to the data I 
have collected, please email me or ping me on Twitter and I can give you 
access to the Github repository.

[^3]: Kenneth Jackson, *Crabgrass Frontier: The Suburbanization of the United States* (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1987), p. 3.  

[^1]: John B. Wright, "Land Tenure: The Spatial Musculature of the American West," in *Western Places, American Myths: How We Think About the West*, ed. Gary J. Hausladen, p. 85 

[^2]: Richard White, "From Wilderness to Hybrid Landscapes," *The Historian* 66 (September 2004): 562-664.
